chore: update rico smit transcript (#5)
The-Mycelium-Network/podcast-transcripts: episode001/en/index.md

As for the roadblock of the payment, I have looked into teaching myself IT in general. So startup courses for older adults or women. Especially in my area, many people don't really know how computers work.

That was a big thing for me. A lot of older women don't know. So I was looking at making something for them, teaching them how computers work. And I completely understand why you charge so much for a course. It's a lot of hard work. It's a lot of information gathering.

And even once I was ready to start, I still felt I had to go through a couple of things and ensure everything was accurate. So I understand why, but not having the funds available to pay, let's say $60 for the advanced course you know will help you. It's quite a hindrance because now I have to search for alternatives where you can get this information for free.

**Schalk Neethling**
The other thing with courses is that, especially if you're asking for money, you must keep it up to date. It's not something you make and then forget about because, you know, the tech industry evolves and moves quite fast. So that's the other part of it, if you want it to be helpful, you have to keep it up to date.

**Rico Smit**

> That is something as well. I was following books from Microsoft that I was lucky enough to access. But they fell into that trap. I would learn and learn and learn, and at some point, I'll hit a roadblock where something is not working. Now, I have to search for hours just to find out that this phrase is no longer valid. Simply change X to Y, and it works. So that is definitely a pitfall I can see some people falling into. Not keeping everything up to date.

Author: @bpires what about comething like this:

```suggestion
That is something as well. I was following books from Microsoft that I was lucky enough to access. But they fell into that trap. I would learn and learn and learn, and at some point, I'll hit a roadblock where something is not working. Now, I have to search for hours just to find out that this phrase is no longer valid. Simply change X to Y, and it works. So that is definitely a pitfall I can see some people falling into. Not keeping everything up to date. And it's frustrating for new people because where do we look for the answers? How would we even know that this information is not up to date? It is, therefore, critical to know which sources you can trust.
```

Reviewer: LGTM!

# The Mycelium Network Podcast Episode One with **Rico Smit**

**Schalk Neethling**
Hey everyone. And welcome to the very first episode of the [Mycelium network podcast](https://anchor.fm/the-mycelium-network), a podcast all about new people to the development world and the mentors and teachers that help them along the way. Today, we are going to have a chat with **Rico Smit**. He is one of the people that joined the Mycelium network very early on and has been pretty active in the community.

So I thought it only appropriate to have him as one of the first guests. Hey Rico, and welcome to the podcast.

**Rico Smit**
Hi, thanks for having me.

**Schalk Neethling**
It's a pleasure. How are you doing today?

**Rico Smit**

> It's been a rough day. I've done a lot cleaning-wise, studying, and sleeping during load-shedding.

Reviewer 2: I've done a lot cleaning, studying, and waiting around for power during load-shedding.

**Schalk Neethling**
Yeah, load-shedding complicates everything. Okay. Let's get right into this.

So, I've sent some of these questions to you before, just so you can be a little bit more prepared, but we will be off the cuff, some things here and there. No pressure, just an informal chat to learn what works and doesn't work, the challenges you're facing, and how the mentors I speak with can help.

So to get us off to a start, tell us a bit about your background. What did you do up to now, and what made you look into getting into software or web development specifically?

**Rico Smit**

> Since I was born and raised here in Pretoria, my uncle has been very heavy into technology. So ever since I was little, I remember standing by him and seeing what he was doing, and it intrigued me from a young age.

Reviewer 2: Suggested Changes: I was born and raised here in Pretoria, my uncle has been very heavy into technology. So ever since I was little, I remember standing by him and seeing what he was doing/creating, and it intrigued me from a young age.

> Since I was born and raised here in Pretoria, my uncle has been very heavy into technology. So ever since I was little, I remember standing by him and seeing what he was doing, and it intrigued me from a young age.

Author: ```suggestion
I was born and raised here in Pretoria, my uncle has been very heavy into technology. So ever since I was little, I remember standing by him and seeing what he was doing/creating, and it intrigued me from a young age.
```

**Rico Smit**
I must say I am more interested in the front-end side of things. It feels like I would like to know the back-end part to make things simpler if you do get stuck, but I am most definitely more interested in front-end development. I don't really find, for example, PHP interesting.

I hate SQL. We had to do some in high school, and I absolutely hated it.

**Schalk Neethling**
Now that we know about your background, how you came to where you are, and what you're looking to do for your future. One of the main things you mentioned is the need to learn.

So as you're learning, which resources have you really come to depend on?

**Rico Smit**
I've got three, well, actually four now. I really like the input I get from you. We get together and chat about things and places to find something to help. [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) has become very essential for me.

> I also tried [SublimeText](https://www.sublimetext.com/). It is very bare bones and is pretty amazing. If you have a laptop, are traveling around, and have a moment, you can quickly open it up and edit something. It's also very small, much smaller than VSCode, so it's easier for me to carry around on a flash drive.

Reviewer 2: Suggested Changes: I also tried [SublimeText](https://www.sublimetext.com/). It is very bare bones but pretty amazing. If you have a laptop, are traveling around, and have a moment, you can quickly open it up and edit something. It's also very small, much smaller than VSCode, so it's easier for me to carry around on a flash drive.

Author: @Rico-Smit, this is one instance where you can use "Add a suggestion"

Someone telling you to do this, this, and this, and then they type it out. So you can pause and do it yourself and then rinse and repeat until you get the hang of whatever you're doing.

**Schalk Neethling**
There are definitely different modalities that work better for some people than others. So that is why I have incorporated video into the pages with the [150 days of HTML](https://150daysofhtml.com/) project. So, if you are a video person, you can listen and watch me talk through the content.

But, you have the content just below you as a reference. So, I think that that is something that I have realized is giving people different ways to consume the same content. Because not everybody learns the same way. Is there anybody on YouTube that you want to shout out to that you find particularly good?

**Rico Smit**
If I remember correctly, it's [Mosh](https://www.youtube.com/c/programmingwithmosh). He has a lot of coding tutorials online, his entire teaching style, the way he talks and explains, and all of the little graphs and things he uses are amazing. I just really like learning this from this person in particular.

> The one big problem I have as a new developer is finding the information I need. So more often than not, I'd find myself asking what's next. I don't know what to learn from here on out. I do rely on free resources at the moment because I currently live from paycheck to paycheck. So I simply do not have the means to pay for courses quite yet. Especially online gets really expensive really quickly.

Reviewer 2: Start reading here again

> The one big problem I have as a new developer is finding the information I need. So more often than not, I'd find myself asking what's next. I don't know what to learn from here on out. I do rely on free resources at the moment because I currently live from paycheck to paycheck. So I simply do not have the means to pay for courses quite yet. Especially online gets really expensive really quickly.

Reviewer 2: read here

Author: @Rico-Smit, this is one instance where you can use "Add a suggestion"

All the resources I could find regarding [JSON](https://www.json.org/) just assumed you knew what it was and how to use it. But I wanted to understand what it is and how to use it. After about two or three hours of searching, I finally realized, oh, I just create a text file. I have to use the .json file extension and then simply paste the code into the file, include it into my job, and bam, Bob's your uncle. But again, gaining just that little knowledge took me about two to three hours.

Because everyone just explains how to use it, not how to implement it.

**Schalk Neethling**
I believe it is because people don't think that far back anymore. For them using JSON is just something you do. It's just a text file. What are you talking about? But if you do not know what JSON is and how it fits into the larger framework of building a website or application, that is a valid question. Let's take, for example, the tool I am making, the [developer tool chest](https://developer-toolchest.com/).

> All it is is a website that loads some JSON with a specific structure and loops through the content of the JSON file. For each entry, it outputs a little block based on the search filter that you typed in. But if you don't know how JSON fits into all of that, it can be confusing? JSON? Is it a database? Kind of, in this particular instance. So, you know, it's understanding that JSON is just a text file with certain limitations. To describe it more accurately, it is a text file that follows a defined set of rules for how the content needs to be formatted. JSON is data. It is the data of your project. You describe the data inside your JSON document, and then you can consume it as if it's a database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All it is is a website that loads some JSON with a specific structure and loops through the content of the JSON file. For each entry, it outputs a little block based on the search filter that you typed in. But if you don't know how JSON fits into all of that, it can be confusing. What is this JSON? Is it a database? Kind of, in this particular instance. So, you know, it's understanding that JSON is just a text file with certain limitations. To describe it more accurately, it is a text file that follows a defined set of rules for how the content needs to be formatted. JSON is data. It is the data of your project. You describe the data inside your JSON document, and then you can consume it as if it's a database.
```

I don't know if you've ever looked up [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/index.html), but if you haven't, SQLite is essentially just a flat text file on your hard drive that acts as a database. It is super lightweight, hence the name SQLite. And like it's in everything, like your mobile phone for example.

**Rico Smit**

> That's why I like following Mosh. He says you can use an H1 tag to add a title, which is where many people will stop and move on. Personally, I want to know why? What does it do? How does it work? So, he pulls up a graph and tells you H1 does this, and this is how and when you use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's why I like following Mosh. He says you can use an H1 tag to add a title, and a lot of people will just move on. But, personally, I want to know why. What does it do? How does it work? So, he pulls up a graph and tells you H1 does this, and this is how and when you use it.
```

Which of the two options is most interesting, starting a business or working for a company? Then, based on your choice, is there anything about the interview process that scares you a little bit?

**Rico Smit**
Personally, I would like to start my own business. I walked out of high school into a permanent job working for about three years as a retail salesperson. After that, I got the opportunity for better hours and more pay for doing school photos. I've been working there for three years now as well. So I've been working for other people since I got out of high school.

I've reached a point where I have had enough of making someone else rich. I've got a lot of knowledge and experience with many things. I do feel that I want to start my own thing and get away from working for someone else. I have already started my business, but I'm still looking for clients. I've got one possible client pending where I still need to do this interview you're talking about.

> Having about three years' worth of sales experience, the interviews are the fun part for me. I look forward to it, and it's exciting. I can definitely see the scary part of it. Having to explain to someone why to choose you. I always remember the term " fake it until you make it in sales. Should the client ask you, can you do back-end development and this whole database thing. Tell them yeah, sure. I have to research and freshen up a couple of things, but let's talk. Let's define what you need, and I'll tell you whether I can or cannot assist you. Then a client's more likely to use you if you're honest about things like that.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Having about three years' worth of sales experience, the interviews are the fun part for me. I look forward to it, and it's exciting. I can definitely see the scary part of it. Having to explain to someone why to choose you. But what I always found in sales is, if you use the term "fake it until you make it", you can sell a pin to a pin factory. Should the client ask you, can you do back-end development and this whole database thing? Tell them yeah, sure. I have to research and freshen up a couple of things, but let's talk. Let's define what you need, and I'll tell you whether I can or cannot assist you. Then a client's more likely to use you if you're honest about things like that.
```

They won't feel you are trying to scam them out of money. You're not just someone looking for a quick buck. You're actually interested in the work.

**Schalk Neethling**
Honesty goes a long way in business. I say that knowing full well that the business industry can be a bit of a cutthroat industry. Still, I think you have to have morals for yourself and for your business. I clearly define the clients I'd be willing to work with.

And, of course, those I would not be willing to work with. And I think I shield myself a little bit from this; it's all about the money. I think it's essential to be open and honest. This specific part of the project might be a little bit more challenging, but you know, I have enough experience in how to find answers.

> That's what I do I find solutions to problems. Technology is almost the easy part. Understanding the problem and defining the solution is often more challenging than writing the code. First, it's understanding what the problem is that the client's facing and how to best solve it. And only then do we ask which technology would best help me implement the solution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's what I do, I find solutions to problems. Technology is almost the easy part. Understanding the problem and defining the solution is often more challenging than writing the code. First, it's understanding what the problem is that the client's facing and how to best solve it. And only then do we ask which technology would best help me implement the solution.
```

**Rico Smit**
It is.

**Schalk Neethling**
For each of us that starts our own little business and start networking with each other, we are creating opportunity for ourselves, but down the line, we're creating opportunities for others.

The nice thing about someone like yourself starting a business is, you know the pain of having to learn all of this and having to find a job where people ask:

"How much experience do you have?"

"Well, work experience in tech? None yet, but I've done all these."

"Oh no, no, no. We are looking for someone with five years of experience. Sorry."

So, you'll be more open to listening to somebody and giving them a chance. Telling them, you know what, come work for me. I'll pay you a monthly salary, and let's see how it goes. If I can see that you can do the job by the end of the month, let's just keep going.

You can even struggle, but if you're willing to learn and eager to do what's necessary to get the work done, I'm happy to employ you. The more we can get that kind of thing going, the better.

**Rico Smit**

> That is something I find very difficult. I've been on many platforms, like upWork looking for jobs. I see an opportunity and look at it, and I'm like, I can do this. I can do everything you need. I have all the requirements. I've got the technology, I've got the background, I've got an internet connection. I've got all of this. I only lack the three years of experience you are looking for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That is something I find very difficult. I've been on many platforms, like [Upwork](https://www.upwork.com/) looking for jobs. I see an opportunity and look at it, and I'm like, I can do this. I can do everything you need. I have all the requirements. I've got the technology, I've got the background, I've got an internet connection. I've got all of this. I only lack the three years of experience you are looking for.
```

**Schalk Neethling**
The great thing about freeCodeCamp is, well, it's free, but beyond that, it's built by a community of contributors. So one, it's kept up to date and constantly being improved. So you, that's learning; you can contribute back to that project. Even if it's just a tiny thing where you maybe find the wording of something could be made more straightforward, more understandable.

It's an open-source project. So you can fork it, open a pull request and propose something that you feel would improve the project. So I think it's great to be involved with projects like that. [MDN Web Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/) is one of the others I'll shout out to cause I'm pretty involved with them. It's an open-source project. All the content is on GitHub. It's community written, and they have people paid to work on it. But it's a massive open-source project. So I think being involved in these projects is excellent. And there are a lot of wonderful people behind these projects that would be happy to receive pull requests.

> So I can personally send an invitation to everybody listening to check out freeCodeCamp and MDN Web Docs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So I can personally send an invitation to everybody listening to check out freeCodeCamp and MDN Web Docs, on GitHub and on the web, and learn and contribute. It's all a learning experience opportunity.
```
